docs/dfs pipeline api.md, before:

# DFS Pipeline API
The script `pipeline_api.py` contains the methods that make use of all other apis and scripts in the package. Its methods are the central methods that are intended to be called by other, external applications to extract structured data in the necessary formats.

## Table of Contents
* ### [`dfs0_pipeline`](https://github.com/MatthewTe/dfs_file_data_pipeline_api/blob/master/docs/dfs%20pipeline%20api.md#dfs0_pipelineclient_name-root_dir)


### `dfs0_pipeline(client_name, root_dir)`
This is the pipeline object that contains all the methods necessary to maintain a data pipeline of easily plotable Time-Series data from the seven day forecasting HD model outputs. It requires both `client_name` and `root_dir` strings as inputs to be initialized as it mainly makes use of the `file query api`: `get_seven_day_forcast_files()`.

When initialized the pipeline object initializes a `file_query_api object` via the root directory parameter.

#### `build_seven_day_forecast_data(self date=None)`
This method when called, returns a pandas dataframe of all available data generated for the seven-day-forecast model by the DHI HD model.

The `date` parameter is a tuple of date (year, day, month). It is used to create the `current_date` variable that is used as the starting point of the
seven day file search-concatenation algo. This parameter is mainly used for
back-testing and development.

The method does this by using the `file_query_api's get_seven_day_forcast_files()` with the client name used to initalize the pipeline method. This method (see file query documentation) generates a dictionary of TimeSeries strings and associated dfs0 paths. The method then parses this dictionary; extracting the dfs0 path strings that have an associated TimeSeries date string that is greater than the current date the method is run but less than or equal to the date +7 days.

In other words the method builds a list of forecast dfs0 paths ordered by date from 1-day forecast to 7-day forecast using the dfs0 with the date closest to the current date as a starting point. Once this list has been built the method then initializes all these dfs0 paths as pandas dataframes via the `dfs0_ingestion_engine` and concatenates these dataframes into a single dataframe.  


Example:
```python
test = dfs0_pipeline('TT_HD_BPTT_Cypre', "Path to root directory")
test.get_seven_day_forcast_files()

# <-----------------------------------Output----------------------------------->

```

Commit message:

Added write_csv() method to the dfs0_pipeline api

docs/dfs pipeline api.md, after:

# DFS Pipeline API
The script `pipeline_api.py` contains the methods that make use of all other apis and scripts in the package. Its methods are the central methods that are intended to be called by other, external applications to extract structured data in the necessary formats.

## Table of Contents
* ### [`dfs0_pipeline`](https://github.com/MatthewTe/dfs_file_data_pipeline_api/blob/master/docs/dfs%20pipeline%20api.md#dfs0_pipelineclient_name-root_dir)


### `dfs0_pipeline(client_name, root_dir)`
This is the pipeline object that contains all the methods necessary to maintain a data pipeline of easily plotable Time-Series data from the seven day forecasting HD model outputs. It requires both `client_name` and `root_dir` strings as inputs to be initialized as it mainly makes use of the `file query api`: `get_seven_day_forcast_files()`.

When initialized the pipeline object initializes a `file_query_api object` via the root directory parameter.

#### `build_seven_day_forecast_data(self, date=None)`
This method when called, returns a pandas dataframe of all available data generated for the seven-day-forecast model by the DHI HD model.

The `date` parameter is a tuple of date (year, day, month). It is used to create the `current_date` variable that is used as the starting point of the
seven day file search-concatenation algo. This parameter is mainly used for
back-testing and development.

The method does this by using the `file_query_api's get_seven_day_forcast_files()` with the client name used to initalize the pipeline method. This method (see file query documentation) generates a dictionary of TimeSeries strings and associated dfs0 paths. The method then parses this dictionary; extracting the dfs0 path strings that have an associated TimeSeries date string that is greater than the current date the method is run but less than or equal to the date +7 days.

In other words the method builds a list of forecast dfs0 paths ordered by date from 1-day forecast to 7-day forecast using the dfs0 with the date closest to the current date as a starting point. Once this list has been built the method then initializes all these dfs0 paths as pandas dataframes via the `dfs0_ingestion_engine` and concatenates these dataframes into a single dataframe.  


Example:
```python
test = dfs0_pipeline('TT_HD_BPTT_Cypre', "Path to root directory")
test.get_seven_day_forcast_files()

# <-----------------------------------Output----------------------------------->
```

#### `write_csv(self, df, file_name)`
This is a basic method that allows the concatenated dataframes generated from the `"build"` methods to be written as a .csv file.

The csv file is written to the main directory folder `WaveForecastTT`. The path
can be further specified by implementing additional path string to the `file_name` input parameter.

**Note: This `write_csv` method is instance specific and as such is intended to be used within a unique instance of a dfs0 pipeline object.**
